Palestinian Medics say dozens of people
have died in overnight Israeli strikes
in Central and Southern Gaza reports
suggest most were killed in central Gaza
while a woman and child were killed in
southern Han Yuna city as Israel's
military operations continues the United
Nations is sounding the alarm about the
situation at the alshifa hospital in
Gaza City the World Health Organization
the who says it's working to organize
the transfer of staff and hundreds of
patients still there to another
facility families spilling out of Gaza
City the air thick with
fear among those fleeing medical staff
and patients from alifa
hospital they say they've been ordered
to leave by the
Israelis a short while ago the Israeli
authorities warned that who whoever is
inside the hospital has to leave except
for the wounded the surgeons and some of
the medical staff and nursing staff as
well Palestinian Health officials say
it's a
catastrophe they are not in the
sufficient uh healthy condition to leave
the hospital but they uh force them to
to leave and this is again against not
only Human Rights and Etc it's against
humanity
Israel claims that gaza's largest
hospital houses a Hamas Command Center
and has raided the site but it denies
forcing people
out the administrator of the hospital
asked our forces to create an evacuation
Corridor this morning for the people
that can leave um that is what we've
coordinated um throughout the day a team
of un officials managed to spend an hour
in the hospital wh staff described it as
a a death zone with a mass grave on site
reportedly containing 80 bodies the team
says nearly 300 patients are still at
the hospital many in extremely critical
conditions with spinal injuries
amputations or
infections even if hamus has used the
hospital for military
purposes the hospital and indeed all
Healthcare facilities are never without
protection under humanitarian
law shifa had been one of the few
remaining refugees for people in Gaza
City in recent weeks now patients and
refugees must try and find somewhere
else safe but as the Israeli bombardment
continues those options are rapidly
running
out and for more all this we're going to
go to DW correspondent Rebecca Ritter in
Jerusalem for us Rebecca we're hearing
reports that 31 premature babies have
now been evacuated from that alifa
Hospital in Gaza what else do you
know that's right Nick we know that this
has been in the planning for some time
that the babies were obviously a very
high priority to be evacuated from the
hospital and we have had word now that
31 remaining the surviving babies it was
originally 34 in the ICU or in the
neonatal Ward now there are 31 and they
have been evacuated further south uh
there are there paperwork being done and
plans for them to be moved moved into a
hospital in Egypt but that hasn't uh
happened yet they are being taken care
for in the South so it's some uh good
news for for those babies obviously and
uh there are still patients inside the
hospital and there is a plan to try and
Evacuate the remaining between 100 and
200 patients still in the hospital and
the and the remaining staff as well that
will be done in conjunction with the who
who were gain who gained access to the
hospital for about an hour today to try
to coordinate that mission it's
obviously viously a very complicated
mission that will be done in conjunction
with the military and Rebecca if we
could just sort of widen our Focus to
the overall situation the Israeli Army
has been telling gazans for weeks now to
seek safety in the South but as we just
said earlier overnight there were air
strikes in Central and Southern Gaza
where can people flee to
now well that is obviously a huge
question for the people that are
Sheltering in the South they have been
told to go f as we've been hearing for
weeks now and many many over a million
from the north have made their way to
the southern part of the Gaza Strip but
we know that the southern part of the
Gaza Strip has also been under
bombardment throughout this time the UN
has said there is nowhere safe for gin
to go and we also know that the military
have over the weekend dropped leaflets
into the khun area into areas in the
South saying that people should evacuate
those areas as well so exactly where
they are supposed to go to we still
don't know we understand that the
military want to set up these safe zones
but there's certainly not going to be
enough room for all the people who are
Sheltering down there in the South and
we saw an air strike overnight killing
uh at least one woman and a child uh in
the South and as I say they've been
ongoing since the beginning of this
operation we also saw a couple of air
strikes in the central part and two
refugee camps
in E excuse me uh refugee camps and uh
we seeing large numbers of people do of
people killed in those so people in Gaza
really running out of Safe places to go
lots of air strikes to keep track of
there was one in the north on Saturday
as well we've heard on a un school and
going by the pictures that have been
posted on on social media many gin were
apparently using it as as a shelter do
you have any more on that for
us well Nick we're actually hearing that
it was a double air strike in fact there
was one on an area that was said to be a
un school where H you're quite right
people were Sheltering we believe that
there are about 100,000 people still
left in that jabalia area in that
jabalia refugee camp some of people were
Sheltering in that un school we told and
there was an air strike there killing as
many as 50 people uh on that one now
Egypt has called that a war crime the
Israeli military saying that they are
aware of an incident in the area and
that that will be investigated but uh we
don't have any more information on that
there was air strike also in jabalia uh
at the same around about the same time
killing more than 30 people uh from the
same family more than half of them
children so if those if those if that
comes to light that becomes that gets
investigated the sheer number of
civilians could lean uh to the to to
what Egypt has said and that it it it is
in fact a war crime thanks Rebecca for
that update DW correspondent Rebecca
ritters in
Jerusalem and for more on the overall
situation let's bring in Shaina Lo she
works for the Norwegian Refugee Council
and is monitoring developments from
Jerusalem as well Shaina gaza's Health
Care system as we all know by now is in
a state of collapse many if not most
health workers have had to flee their
workplaces how are hospitals still
functioning at
all you know most hospitals in Gaza have
shut down at this point and the ones
that are operating are operating with
skeleton Crews with a shortage of
supplies lack of fuel to operate
generators for weeks we've been hearing
stories about people being operated on
amputations without
anesthesia uh I heard reports today that
patients in Al shifa Hospital uh had
worms coming out of their wounds because
of uh lack of sanitary conditions and
lack of medicines to treat them uh
appropriately the Gaza healthc care
system is collapsing as we speak uh and
has been in a state of collapse for for
days if not weeks at this point uh we
desperately need more supplies to be
getting in we need those supplies to be
able to reach hospitals and patients
including in Northern Gaza and in order
to be able to do that we desperately
need a ceasefire so that humanitarian
agencies can access all areas of Gaza
and provide not just medical medical
supplies and medicines but the necess
fuel for hospitals to operate as well as
clean water and food and and and before
that happens sha you Gaza has two
million a little over two million people
thousands have been killed tens of
thousands injured many of them are on
the move with their injuries what what
kind of care can they hope to receive in
the here and now in the immediate
future what I've been hearing from
colleagues on the ground is that people
are basically being treated as best as
they can and then released without you
know having
uh the type of care that they really
need a colleague of mine last week
worked to get a friend of his who who
had injuries to his limbs be evacuated
to Egypt and I said if his if his
injuries were so serious how was he out
of the hospital for you to transport him
to rough and he said they're basically
treating people as best as they can and
then releasing them we have a colleague
who was injured in an air strike weeks
ago who still is is recovering from her
injuries facing infections due to the
wounds that she has but h hospitals
simply don't have the capacity to care
for all of the Wounded they basically
are bandaging them up the best that they
can and then releasing them to the care
of their families without having uh
available supplies or medicines on the
on the market to help continue with
their treatment and one last quick
question if I may Shaina we know that
there's not enough fuel in Gaza what
other resources are people
missing people are missing everything
that's necessary for survival they're
missing fuel access to clean water which
of course fuel would help to help to
alleviate some of that because
desalination plants would be able to
work uh water pumps would be able to to
function there are also shortages of
food uh people are are running out of
the basic Staples rice flour yeast
cooking oil cooking gas uh everything is
in short supply it's difficult even for
our staff to find things on the basic
Market we desperately need more Aid
coming into to Gaza it shouldn't just be
coming in through the Rafa Crossing
Israel has an obligation as the
occupying power to provide for the basic
needs of the civilian population under
its control and they should open the
caram Shalom Crossing which is already
equipped with all of the equipment and
and Facilities to allow for more Aid to
come in okay Shaya L from the Norwegian
Refugee Council thanks so
much thank you thousands of of people
have rallied in Jerusalem outside the
Office of Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu in solidarity with hostages
held by Hamas protesters are calling for
the government to do more to gain the
release of the people held hostage since
Hamas attacked Israel on October 7th the
rally is a culmination of a trek in
which tens of thousands walked from Tel
Aviv to
Jerusalem for 5 days now they've carried
out their vigil March for friends family
members and their fellow countrymen who
have been taken hostage by Hamas
militants their destination the office
of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu this is unacceptable I call on
every NGO every government the Israeli
government the Israeli Army to put aside
any other interest and totally
concentrate on their release of these
people and in the first instance we
would like to know where they are what
is their condition are they being looked
after since hamas's attack on Israel
claimed over 1200 lives and saw the
Abduction of over 200 hostages Israel
has waged war in Hamas costing thousands
of Palestinian lives but the
demonstrators here say that the military
campaign is distracting from what should
be the government's goal bringing the
hostages home cost what it
may every day that passes their health
is getting worse and worse we have no
idea the Red Cross haven't seen them no
one have seen them the UN people have
not seen them no one knows where they
are how they are
doing it's a dark dark moment of
humanity we want them home
Healthy
Home the 5-day March has yielded some
results the demonstrators have gained
the ear of some parts of the government
members of Israel's war cabinet have
agreed to meet with them without prime
minister Benjamin
[Music]
Netanyahu